# Building a Feminine Wardrobe
Let's talk about clothes!  
In fashion and personal style, there's no one "right" way to dress. As such, any specific advice that we could offer would be a matter of our own personal tastes. Chances are, you already have a good idea of what you want to look like, whether that's based on somebody you've seen on TV or online, someone in your own life, or an item or outfit you've seen in a store. How you present and how strongly it adheres to stereotypes around femininity, is entirely up to your personal taste. Your gender is not defined by the clothes you wear or your personal style. With that said, what follows here are a few basics.  
Starting with casual wear, women are afforded a much greater range of options than men. Dresses, skirts, pants shorts, rompers, and leggings all work for covering your bottom half. Blouses, t-shirts, or other tops work for covering your top half. Given that there are so many different topis for your clothing, it wouldn't make sense to go into specific fashion tips, rather this resource will cover some specific articles of clothing that are most flattering to trans bodies.  
Dresses and skirts can come in a "fit and flare" style, in which the skirt flares out at or below the hips. This can help easily conceal any concerning areas below the waist, as well as helping create the appearance of broader hips.  
Leggings and yoga pants are generally perceived as an overtly feminine garment and can be paired with a long shirt (short or long sleeve) to easily conceal certain areas.  
For tops, a boat necks or halter neck can create a feminine appearance and also mitigate any concerns regarding not having cleavage.  
Women's clothing is generally designed to accommodate larger hips, so garments such as jeans or other pants may not fit perfectly. Be sure to take your own measurements, as sizing will vary dramatically between brands, or you can usually consult a size chart to find the right fit. For pants and other bottoms, pay specific attention to the waist measurement as that'll largely dictate whether or not they fit will.  
Ordering online is a good way to try out a variety of sizes and try things on in the comfort of your home. You can also try things on in stores, which has the advantage of allowing you to check the fit before buying. If the prospect of going to a changing room in stores is intimidating, you can ask a friend to accompany you or you can go during typically slower store hours to reduce the number of people you may interact with.  
With regards to semiformal attire ("business casual") you will have access to a wide range of option. Generally speaking, dresses and skirts that fall below the knee (meaning the bottom of the skirt is below your knee when standing up) are considered traditionally appropriate for semiformal attire. Tops that do not have a plunging neckline are also considered appropriate. Some individuals may opt to wear nylons when wearing a dress or skirt for the added aesthetic and warmth.  
Blazers and blouses may be difficult for individuals with broader shoulders. You can try going a size up for find looser fitting tops.  
For formal occasions, a dress can be a fun and overtly feminine option. Dresses come in an enormous range of different styles, colors, and fits. If you are concerned about exposing your shoulders or arms, you can pair a cardigan or shawl with a dress. It is also worth noting that most dresses do not have pockets, which may make carrying a purse advisable.  
Last but not least, you may want a swimsuit. Women's swimsuits will accentuate your body, for better or for worse. For those concerned about the the [sic] lower half of their body, finding a swim-skirt or swimsuit with a skirted bottom can help assuage those concerns. For those concerned about the top half of their body, a high-neck swimsuit may be preferred.  
Finding the clothes that fit you and your style will take time. As you continue through your transition there may be some garments that don't fit or accommodate your body now, but they may in the future. Some bodies do not accommodate certain styles of clothing. This is true whether you are transgender or cisgender. Don't be discouraged, as hard as it may be, if things don't fit or look right at first. It takes everyone a significant amount of time to figure out their style and is an ongoing process.  
As with many things in life, a general rule of thumb for fashion is less is more. Whether based on excitement, inexperience, or genuine personal taste, when many individuals come out, their first instinct is to gravitate toward bright colors, loud prints, flashy accessories, etc. This isn't inherently a good or bad thing, but what it may affect is how other people perceive you; ultimately, it is up to you to decide to what extent you prefer to blend in or stand out from the crowd.
[Bliss butterfly icon.] This cost will vary significantly based on your style and preference, but the average women's wardrobe costs $2,500  
[Click here to find out more about how to save for this goal.](https://bliss.lgbt/earlyaccess)