# Building a Masculine Wardrobe
I want to help you make sure you look and feel your best.  
In fashion and personal style, there's no one "right" way to dress. As such, any specific advice that we could offer would be a matter of our own personal tastes. Chances are, you already have a good idea of what you want to look like, whether that's based on somebody you've seen on TV or online, someone in your own life, or an item or outfit you've seen in a store. How you present and how strongly it adheres to stereotypes around masculinity, is entirely up to your personal taste. Your gender is not defined by the clothes you wear or your personal style. With that said, what follows here are a few basics.  
Starting with casual wear, depending on where you are at in your transition, you may feel more comfortable wearing loose-fitting clothes or buying a size up from your standard size (for instance, if a media fits normally but feels too snug in certain areas, consider a large or even extra-large), especially for articles like t-shirts. Layering, such as wearing a sweatshirt or button-up over a t-shirt, is another way to express your style without calling attention to parts of your body that you're less comfortable with. Casual pants and shorts come in a variety of fits depending on taste, ranging from skinny jeans to cargo pants. Generally, the size on men's pants contains two numbers, for example, 30x32. The first number is the size around the waist, and the second is the length of the inseam down the leg. While that may seem straightforward and objective, actual fit can vary wildly between brands. With pants, it may be advisable to stick as close as possible to your true sizing, and browse different brands and styles to find the fit that's most comfortable for you. One final note for casual wear - light, loose fitting garments like gym short [sic] or sweats tend to be revealing of underlying anatomy by the way they shift around and flow as you move around - this may be desirable or not for you, but it is something to be aware of.  
For situations that require semiformal attire ("business-casual") like many professional workplaces, you will want to invest in at least 5-7 collared shirts, whether button-ups or polo shirts. Again, layering with a tight-fitting t-shirt or undershirt beneath the collared shirt is a great option if there are areas of the body that you don't want to highlight. Most business dress codes generally don't allow jeans or shorts, so will want to purchase at least a couple pairs of dress slacks or trousers, with the fit following the same general guidelines as above. Pants can typically be warn 2-3 times without a wash, so it's not necessary to have a pair for every day of the week (depending on your budget), but if you do only have a couple of pairs of dress pants, consider sticking to neutral colors like khaki or grey that will look good with multiple outfit combinations.  
For formal occasions, a good suit can expensive (in the range of several hundred to a thousand dollars), but is a worthy investment if you can afford it. Suits in this price range are typically tailored, which can be an uncomfortable or potentially unsafe situation for some individuals. If you know someone who you trust who can take measurements for you, this can be an option for getting the correct, professional measurements while maintaining your safety and dignity. Otherwise, there are multiple online guides for taking self-measurements at home. Suits can be more baggy or fitted depending on overall style trends, but for the greatest versatility and longevity, consider a slim fit that's tapered at the waist and ankles while leaving more room in the chest, shoulders and legs. If a tailored suit is not an option, most department stores sell suit separates at an affordable price. This can also be desirable if you prefer to mix-and-math (for instance, a pattern on the blazer but not the trousers, or a navy blue blazer with a pair of brightly colored pants).  
Swimsuits tend to fall into the standard sizing of S, M, L, and XL as with other articles of clothing, and come in a variety of styles and fits depending on your tastes. Trunks are the most common and versatile swimwear option, with a variety of length, fits, colors, and materials. Thinner material and lighter colors tend to cling to the body and become more translucent when wet, so this is something to bear in mind when looing at options online or in a store. Depending on your personal taste and comfort level, more form-fitting pieces like swim briefs and jammers are also an option and can be worn under trunks or by themselves. Many men choose to go topless when swimming, however it's not uncommon to see individuals wearing a shirt, whether for modesty, protection from the sun, or any other reasons. T-shirts and tank tops can generally be worn with a binder for individuals who have not had top surgery (depending on the make, a binder should be able to be worn underwater, though most manufacturers recommend going at least a size up for physical activity). You may want to invest in a swim binder which is made for that purpose, rather than wearing the same one that you wear day-to-day. Compression attire like a rash guard or wetsuit is also an option, though this may or many not look out of place depending on where you are at (these may look more appropriate at a lake or ocean than at the local pool, for instance).  
Finally, a few general notes on accessorizing: Generally, jewelry and accessories marketed for men are fairly simple and low-profile: stud earrings or small hoops, simple metal band rings and chain necklaces, and cloth or leather belts. A basic rule with accessories is to match your metals and leathers. If you're wearing silver or steel earrings, try to make sure that your rings, belt buckle, etc. are the same metal or at least color. Similarly, if you're wearing a brown belt, you should be wearing brown shoes as well. With all that said, many men prefer bolder accessories like statement earrings or necklaces, or accenting their outfit with a brightly colored or patterned scarf, neckerchief, or tie. Your taste in colors, patterns, jewelry, etc. do not make you any more or less of a man. What they may affect is how other people perceive you; ultimately it is up to you to decide to what extent you prefer to blend in or stand out from the crowd.