# Buying a Bra
I'll try to make this process as easy as possible.  
A bra is one of the quintessential feminine garments. Some women don't wear bras, although most do.  
Regular bras are measured via your band and your bust size. Your band size is measured by wrapping soft measuring tap [sic] around your chest, under each arm, right above the bust (the bust being the largest area of your chest). If your band size is an odd number (measured in inches), round down to the nearest even number.  
Your bust size is the difference in inches between the measurement of your band size and the measurement of your bust (again, being the largest area of your chest). The different in inches translates to your cup size. An "A" cup refers to a one inch difference, a "B" cup refers to a two inch difference, etc.  
Bras are sized using a syntax of bust size, band size. If you have a 36 inch band size and a 38 bust size, your bra size would be 36 B (as B indicates that there is a 2 inch increase in size between the band and the bust). You can also try a sister size if you are having trouble finding the right fit ([https://blog.thirdlove.com/sister-sizes-the-bra-secret-every-woman-should-know/](https://blog.thirdlove.com/sister-sizes-the-bra-secret-every-woman-should-know/)).  
If you are using breast forms, you can pick your optimal bust size and purchase a bra that fits the breast form. It is still important to get an accurate measurement of your band size to ensure that the bra fits appropriately.  
Some stores offer bra fittings in which a sales associate can take your measurements. It may be advisable to call ahead to a store and see if they'd be receptive to doing a bra fitting on a transgender customer to avoid any chances of conflict.  
Sports bras are generally sold in small, medium, large, etc. sizes but they often refer back to the traditional band and bust sizing to ensure a proper fit.  
There are a number of online vendors that sell bras and most clothing stores sell them too.  
You can purchase a padded bra to add additional shape to your breast or a push-up bra to increase the appearance of cup size.  
Once you've bought your bra, be sure to wash it every one or two weeks. It is advisable to hand wash your bras to avoid damaging them in a washing machine. And no matter what anyone may have told you, there is nothing wrong with sleeping in a bra.