# Financing Your Transition
I know this may seem daunting, but with a plan we can get this done.  
Transition is expensive. On average, the total amount spent on transition is $150,000. [1] This amount can vary significantly based on your goals, and there's no single amount that you need to spend on your transition. The decisions you make in your transition are entirely up to you, and only those decisions will factor into the cost.  
First off, there's a sibling app called Bliss that is currently in development and intended to help with your transition. You'll find a link at the bottom of this resource (as well as others within Solace) with the approximate cost of your goals and a link to pre-register for Bliss. I'm excited to inform you that Bliss is coming this spring.  
Regardless of whether or not you use Bliss, the fundamentals on how to afford your transition will stay the same. I want to go over a few ways that you, [name], can save for your transition.
## OPTION 1: TRADITIONAL SAVINGS
Whether it's opening a savings account or another type of financial account, saving up on a reoccurring basis for transition is your best and easiest path forward. I recommend saving 10% of your income to transition. 10% may seem like a daunting amount, but you can incrementally work your way towards that amount by making smaller contributions to start, and then working your way up. Based on the US median income, most individuals are able to save between $300-$500 a month.  
Most importantly, this type of saving is best optimized when you are able to automate your savings. If you're able to automatically send money to your savings as soon as you receive it, you'll won't feel [sic] the financial pain of having that money taken out as it'll never feel like it was there in the first place. If you pay rent or a mortgage, consider making the transfers at the same time you pay those bills. Automation is key. By doing this you'll be able to achieve your goals even faster (by a factor of weeks, by months, or even by years).
## OPTION 2: DEBT FINANCING
Debt is a loan. Money you borrow in advance and pay back over a period of time. For certain goals there may be medical loans, others may use a credit card as if you are taking a loan out against yourself, or even personal loans from a bank or credit union. Debt financing can be an effective way to reach goals faster in the short term, but your future income will be earmarked to repaying the debt.  
Debt carries interest. Interest is a percentage of the money you owe, added to your debt, that you must repay each month as payment to the lender. For example, credit cards can have an interest rate between 12%-24% APY. APY stands for Annual Percentage yield [sic], which means that you divide the APY by twelve to get the monthly interest. As an example, if you have a $1,000 credit card balance, and the card has an APY of 12%, you're paying 1% per month in interest on the debt, so you'd be paying an additional $10 per month in interest to the lender. Credit cards compound meaning that the interest in added to the total amount [sic]. The amount of interest is added to the original loan amount, making future payments even more expensive.  
Other loans may allow you to avoid compound interest, meaning that you only accuse [sic] additional interest on the amount lent (and not the interest). With loans, you may also deal with a variable rate or fixed rate, which dictates the terms of if the APY can change.  
Understanding all of this, the best way to think of a debt (credit card, loan, etc.) is a loan against yourself. And before utilizing debt, you want to make sure you have a repayment plan in place. Debt can help you advance your goals, but it should only be used if you can repay it. I would recommend against using debt to finance your transition unless you've determined a repayment structure that you can manage. If you are repaying debts, like traditional savings, you will succeed if you can automate those return payments. The vast majority of debt instruments will allow you to do this and some may even offer you additional incentives (such as reduced interest).  
In review, you can use debt to pay for transition goals preemptively, but only do so if you have a plan in place.
## OPTION 3: NEOBANKS & NEOBROKERAGES
The finance industry has been historically difficult towards the transgender community. This largely stems from issues around one's name (as finance will mostly operate on one's legal name) and this can be a source of distress.  
Neobanks, a term coined (ha! Finance puns!) for app-based financial institutions, may offer better tools that are also more affirming than traditional banks. Neobrokerages are apps that allow you to save your money in higher-interest accounts by investing in the stock market. A neobank may offer more stability and ease of use, whereas a neobrokerage can help you grow your savings more quickly via interest, but carries a higher risk as well.  
I say this with the utmost respect, but I would recommend avoiding neobrokerages where you are investing your money into certain stocks unless you have significant experience (and even then, it may not be worth it). At this moment, stock markets are being actively manipulated which can cause dramatic losses of the money you're saving.  
Neobanks and neobrokerages (such as Bliss) may be your best option in order to augment your savings goals, but any solution should be carefully vetted in order to manage risks and concerns.
## [Main section continued.]
Ultimately, no matter the tool you use (traditional, debt, neosolutions, etc.), all of them will be based on a habit of making reoccurring efforts to reach these goals. And while certain numbers may seem daunting ($5,000 to move somewhere more accepting, or $15,000 for a medical procedure), the thing to remember is that achieving these goals are only based on a matter of time. How quickly you'll reach these goals. [sic] Stronger habits and better tools will allow you to reach these goals faster, effectively letting you be who are quicker. Think of savings a form of time travel.  
The exact finances behind your goals will vary based on factors of your local, insurance (particularly for medical goals if you are not opting to go private-pay), and total number of goals. As you think of your goals, think of everything measured in time rather than amounts. It is not a matter of it we will reach your goals, it is a matter of when.  
You can use Solace to approximate the cost of some of our goals as we will be continuing to add in details around costs for certain goals. You can also use the button at the bottom of this resource to pre-register for Bliss as a complementary financial experience to Solace. You may find that there are other ways to finance your transition (such as taking gigs, finding yourself the recipient of others' generosity, or even liquidating certain assets), but all of them center around the common theme of an enduring commitment and having a plan.  
Fear not, I'll be here to help as much as I can and I know you can do this. You didn't make it this far to only make this this far. [sic] That much I know.  
Completing this goal can signify that you are committed to making a plan, finding tools that augment your savings goals, or that you are going to work to learn more about finances. This is the first step, and it is a big one at that. I'm proud of you for taking this step. We're going to see the finish line together.  
Remember, it isn't a matter of IF you'll afford and achieve your goals. It is a matter of WHEN.  
ADDITIONAL READING:  
[1] The $150,000 amount has been determined based on review of existing news articles that speak to the cost of transition. The number is also based on feedback from my quarterly surveys that reference goals against existing cost averages. You [sic] may find that your goal is significantly less expensive or greater than this average. Admittedly, there has not been a scholarly review of existing data nor do most news resources speak to anything but financial costs (whereas I fact for lifestyle and legal costs as well). As time goas on, this number will continue to be better defined, but at this moment, this is the best I got.  
[Bliss butterfly icon.] Transition can cost $150,000 on average. Having a tool to help you save can be important in order to reach those goals faster.    
[Click here to find out more about how to save for this goal.](https://bliss.lgbt/earlyaccess)