# Finding a General Practitioner
For both your transition-related care and general healthcare, having a physician who you see regularly is important. I'll help get you started.  
Finding the right healthcare provider can be difficult for anybody, but the process is even more daunting for members of the transgender community. While not everyone is required to have one, a primary care physician (PCP) can be a valuable resource to help facilitate your care to the specialists and surgeons who will move you forward in your process of transition. At minimum, they can handle the logistics of finding a provider who takes your insurance and sending your medical records to their office. Depending on their level of experience and understanding of the issues facing the trans community, your PCP may also be able to recommend other local specialists who can provide compassionate and dignified care. When you're seeking a physician, there are a few components that you will need to consider:

1. Insurance  
    1a. Depending on your insurance (or if you dot have health insurance), this will impact which healthcare providers you are able to see. Almost every insurance provider has a limited set of physicians, based on factors like geography or clinic affiliation, who are considered in-network for your plan. Most of the major insurance providers have websites where you can search for a physician, otherwise you can call your insurance company at the customer service number on your insurance card to speak to a representative who can assist you.  
        1a-a. For most Preferred Provider Organization (PPO) plans, you are not required to have a primary care physician can still receive care at an office that's not in network, although penalties like a higher deductible or out of pocket cost may apply.  
        1a-b. For most Health Maintenance Organization (HMO) plans, you are required to have a primary care physicians and out-of-network facilities and services may require prior authorization or not be covered at all.  
    1b. Even if a clinic is in-network for your insurance, clinics also have discretion over whether they are accepting new patients with certain types of insurance, especially Medicare or Medicaid coverage. Once you have found a provider in your network, it will be important to ask before scheduling an appointment whether they accept your insurance.  
    1c. If you do not have health insurance, you can ask for a cost estimate prior to scheduling an appointment. Depending on the health system, especially larger nonprofit hospitals or clinics, they may offer programs like financial assistance based on income, self-pay discounts, or repayment plans.  
2. Types of Care & Affirming Care  
    2a. Primary care physicians, in addition to basic services like annual checkups, prescribing medications, etc., can often have secondary specialties and certifications that qualify them to offer transition services including hormone therapy, rather than referring you to a specialist (which can be more expensive). Starting with a search engine search for "[YOUR STATE] [sic] transgender doctor" can point you toward local physicians that are trans-affirming and/or are qualified to provide transition services, as well as local or national organizations that curate lists of these physicians. It is also important to make sure that any provider you find accepts your insurance, as discussed above. Once you have found someone you are interested in seeing, you may want to contact their office directly prior to scheduling an appointment to verify that they accept your insurance (or have options for self-payment) and confirm that they are willing and able to provide dignified and compassionate care for trans individuals.  
    2b. Even taking these steps, it might take a few tries to find the right provider for your care, and it is important to be aware of the risks and take steps to protect yourself, such as bringing a friend or family member with you to appointments. According to the 2015 US Transgender Survey, 33% of respondents who saw a healthcare provider in the past year reported at least one negative experience related to their gender, including being refused treatment, having to educate their provider about trans people in order to receive care, being verbally harassed, or even physically or sexually assaulted. While these risks can be mitigated by researching and asking questions beforehand, it's important to be aware of them.

Further reading:  
[https://transequality.org/sites/default/files/docs/usts/UTST-Executive-Summary-Dec17.pdf](https://transequality.org/sites/default/files/docs/usts/UTST-Executive-Summary-Dec17.pdf)  
[Bliss butterfly icon.] Finding a primary care provider can be inexpensive with insurance, but restrictive in terms of available providers. Most providers do take private pay allowing you to circumnavigate insurance.    
[Click here to find out more about how to save for this goal.](https://bliss.lgbt/earlyaccess)