# Knowing Your Rights During Covid-19
This is a scary and uncertain time, but I've got some information to help you navigate the current crisis.  
NOTE: A national Know Your Rights guide has been published by the Transgender Legal Defense and Education Fund. Their full guide can be found in both English and Spanish here: [https://transgenderlegal.org/media/uploads/doc_800.pdf](https://transgenderlegal.org/media/uploads/doc_800.pdf)  
The Equality Federation has created a COVID-19 resource hub, found here: [https://www.equalityfederation.org/covid-19-resources/](https://www.equalityfederation.org/covid-19-resources/), containing state-specific guides for Arizona, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Minnesota, New Mexico, Ohio, Oklahoma, & Virginia. Their page is being updated regularly as new resources are being put out by the state of Equality organizations.  
In the midst of the COVID-19 outbreak, it can be hard to know which goals within Solace can be completed right now. Below are a few pieces of top-level advice to help you navigate the challenges of these unprecedented times.  
MEDICAL:  
First and foremost: If you feel sick, don't wait to seek out medical advice (whether from a physician or a state health department hotline). The risk of being misgendered or treated poorly by a medical provider does not outweigh the risk of health impacts or complications from undiagnosed COVID-19, or the risk of unknowingly spreading the disease to your friends or loved ones.

> Gender Confirmation Surgery  
    - With hospitals and clinics overwhelmed by COVID-19 patients, many states have postponed any non-emergency surgeries, which includes gender confirmation surgeries. While it's important to remember that this crisis WILL end, and these surgeries WILL be rescheduled, that doesn't lessen the immediate blow for people who've been waiting months or even years to get this done. It's going to be critical to have a support network in place, whether that's a trusted mental health professional, friends/family support groups online, or any combination of the above. If you need additional help getting through this time, we've linked several support resources at the bottom of this guide.  
> Hormone Replacement Therapy
    - If you have a prescription for HRT, you should consider reaching out to your medical provider to see about getting an early refill or an extended prescription. As of right now, grocery stores and pharmacies have remained open in all 50 states as essential services, but you should be prepared for the possibility, however remote, of not being able to refill a prescription for the next several months. This is not to incite panic; we don't expect any runs of pharmaceuticals to take place. This is simply about preparation.  
    - Some individuals' access to HRT may be diminished or halted throughout the COVID-19 epidemic. Hospitals and clinics all over the country, overwhelmed by COVID-19 response efforts, are closing their doors to routine medical care, including for many individuals who receive hormone injections in a clinical setting. We have reached out to several medical professionals for their input regarding what options may be available for people affected by this, but the very best thing you can do is reach out to your care team and find out what your physician recommends. In some cases, it may be possible to safely switch to another method of delivery that can be done at home.  
    - For some individuals, the impact of COVID-19 may be delay in being able to start HRT at all. With many clinics rescheduling or cancelling appointments for routine care, many people's ability to get a prescription to start HRT will be diminished. It's going to be critical to have a support network in place, whether that's a trusted mental health professional, friends/family, support groups online, or any combination of the above. If you need additional help getting through this time, we've linked several support resources at the bottom of this guide.  
    - IN NO CASE should you attempt to start or alter your HRT regimen without the advice of a qualified medical professional. Hormones are powerful and have real health implications which require a physician's input, including (but not limited to) impacts on blood pressure, blood clotting, and cholesterol, and in extreme cases contribute to risk of heart attack or stroke, especially if you have other unmanaged health conditions. Additionally, if you have any unmanaged mental health conditions (depression, anxiety, etc.), starting HRT can potentially alter how symptoms manifest. Most significantly right now, you risk exposing yourself to COVID-19 by attempting to go through the "Grey Market." This all requires a physician's input. As difficult as it may be to wait, it's not worth the risks to your health.  
> Mental health services  
    - While many states have imposed limitations on gatherings and many health professionals are not seeing patients in-person right now, you will likely still have options such as phone calls and remote conferencing. Contact your therapist to find out how they are facilitating sessions throughout the crisis; if they are not currently seeing patients, you may want to consider finding somebody new or using other web-based services for routine mental health needs in the interim. For many people, this is going to be a mentally and emotionally exhausting time, and it's important to have a solid support system in place to get you through it. If you need immediate help, we've linked several support resources at the bottom of this guide.  
> Health insurance  
    - As of 3/24/2020, 11 states (California, Colorado, Connecticut, Maryland, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Nevada, New York, Rhode Island, Vermont and Washington), and the District of Columbia, have opened special enrollment periods for their healthcare exchanges. Generally speaking, federal guidelines (and guidelines in many of these states) prohibit plans on the marketplace from discriminating against transition-related care, but you should check to make sure that plans are transgender-inclusive. For more information, see the related resource above.

LEGAL:

> Name/gender marker updates  
    - Courthouses across the country have limited or stopped hearing cases in response to the COVID-19 outbreak, which may impact your ability to get a court order for a name change or, depending on your state, a gender marker change on your legal documents. If you live in a state which requires a hearing, you should contact the courthouse in your jurisdiction to find out how their process has been impacted, as well as the issuing body for driver's licenses/state IDs. Unfortunately, due to the limitations currently in place, there's a good chance that completing these goals may need to wait until after the current crises has ended [sic], although it should be noted that a court order is only necessary to update your legal documents; this is not a barrier to using the correct name in your day-to-day life.  
> The Census  
    - Looking beyond 2020, an accurate population count is absolutely essential for public health services like vaccines, hospital beds, and emergency response; your response to the Census ensures that if there's ever another pandemic like this, public services like hospitals are as prepared as possible. As the US Census is primarily being conducted online, your ability to complete the census should not be impacted by the social distancing measures currently in place. The Census is only ten (10) questions long and can be completed via the mail, on the phone, or online. For the sake of convenience it is advisable to complete the census online.  
    - The Census does not cross-reference records with other agencies, so for the question regarding your name and sex you do NOT need to have any legal documents updated to accurately fill out the census within your gender identity. The Census only has a male/female option for sex. If you identity [sic] as neither you can leave it blank, but incomplete census questions may result in an enumerator coming to your house to try to collect that information. The Census Bureau is following guidance from public health authorities and may delay or discontinue nonresponse follow-ups as the outbreak develops, but for the sake of ease and to minimize this possibility, selecting one of the two options is advisable.

Further reading:  
[https://transgenderlegal.org/media/uploads/doc_800.pdf](https://transgenderlegal.org/media/uploads/doc_800.pdf)  
Additional mental health resources:  
Trans Lifeline 877-565-8860; [https://www.translifeline.org/](https://www.translifeline.org/)  
The Gay, Lesbian Bisexual and Transgender National Hotline: (888) 843-4564; [http://www.glbtnationalhelpcenter.org/](http://www.glbtnationalhelpcenter.org/)  
National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: (800) 273-8255; [https://suicidepreventionlifeline.org/](https://suicidepreventionlifeline.org/)  
The Trevor Project: (866) 488-7386; [https://www.thetrevorproject.org/](https://www.thetrevorproject.org/)