# Men's Hair Styling
General, but helpful information.  
How you style your hair will differ significantly based on its length, texture, and overall style, but here are a few basic concepts to get you started.  
Generally, men's haircuts are cheaper than those for women, but also need to be done more frequently. It's fairly typical to get a haircut every 3-6 weeks, although depending on the length of your hair and your styling preferences, haircuts can be as frequent as every couple of months. Shorter style generally require more maintenance because growth is more noticeable.  
Speaking very broadly, any barbershop or haircutting chain should be able to provide a basic men's haircut. Some higher-end hair salons require you to book an appointment in advance, but most barbershops and chains take customers on a first-come, first-serve basis. Finding pictures online of the hairstyle you want and showing them to the barber or stylist is a great way to communicate your desired look. Most men's haircuts are worn by both men and women of all varieties, meaning there should be little to no stigma around getting the hairstyle you want (again, generally speaking). Still, going in to see a new barber for the first time can be intimidating, so if you're at all nervous, consider calling ahead to make sure that the barbers there are comfortable working with trans individuals, or bring a friend with you for support. You can also ask folks at support groups or trans social media groups for suggestions or referrals.  
In terms of maintenance, you'll generally only need to wash your hair 1-2 times per week, depending on the texture of your hair, sweat/oil buildup, etc. If you're prone to dandruff, chances are you're washing too often, or using too harsh of a shampoo. Generally speaking, textured hair (coiled, kinky, or curly hair) dries out more easily than straight or wavy hair, so investing in a good shampoo and conditioner will be important. Seek out a sulfate-free shampoo, and you should generally avoid multi-purpose cleansers (body wash + shampoo).  
Depending on the length of your hair and desired look, you'll probably need to invest in, at minimum, a hairdryer, a brush and/or comb, and a styling product. Men's styling products (gel, pomade, putty, hairspray, etc.)  offer a wide variety of textures and hold; hair gel will dry into a hard shell, for instance, while pomade will give a more natural look. If you have straight or wavy hair, the level of hold may be a higher priority; if you have textured hair, seek out products that strengthen and moisturize like a leave-in conditioner.  
Some styles require little to no maintenance besides regular washing and brushing. What works for you will come down to the look you want and the amount of time you're willing to spend each morning on grooming.  
[Bliss butterfly icon.] A haircut can cost around $25-50, which can be a tri-weekly or monthly expense. To achieve this goal, you may want to start saving up to ensure you can afford this goal when you're ready to accomplish it!   
[Click here to find out more about how to save for this goal.](https://bliss.lgbt/earlyaccess)