# Seeking Treatment for Mental Health
I know this can be an intimidating process, but I promise I'm right here with you.  
NOTE: Especially among millennials and members of Gen Z, the "therapy" has been something of a catch-all for any mental or behavioral health professional. The destigmatization of mental health has simultaneously increased demand for these services. When this resource refers to "therapy" and "therapists," it is referring to a qualified medical or mental health professional who can diagnose and clinically treat specific mental health conditions like depression, anxiety, bipolar, schizophrenia, addiction, etc. This includes certain types of talk therapy like psychotherapy or Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT), and so there may be overlap between counseling psychology providers and clinical therapists. This can make it intimidating or time-consuming for individuals with diagnosed mental health conditions to find a therapist with both the qualifications and availability to help.  
Gender dysphoria can be a masking agent for other mental health conditions, whether genetic (bipolar, major depressive, ADHD, etc.), situation/environmental (anxiety, depression, etc.), or traumatic (PTSD). What this means is that while you progress through your transition and the constant pain of gender dysphoria begins to relent, you may discover other underlying conditions that also need to be addressed. In these cases, a therapist may be able to treat or manage symptoms so that your life is not controlled by the disease.  
There are three general categories of licensed mental health professionals: psychiatrists, psychologists, and clinical social workers. A psychiatrist is an MD or DO who specializes in mental health. Often, a psychiatrist will see patients in a clinical setting like a hospital, medical center, or private practice. Their approach to care is more akin to treatment for a disease of the body, relying on testing, one-on-one evaluations, and labwork in order to diagnose and treat the condition, including prescribing medications, engaging in psychotherapy, or medical treatment options electroconvulsive therapy, deep brain stimulation, etc. They may engage in some forms of behavioral health therapy themselves or they may refer to another mental health provider for specialized therapeutic treatment.  
A psychologist also typically has a doctoral degree like a PhD in clinical psychology, with extensive training in research or clinical practice. They are also able to diagnose mental health conditions, but generally cannot prescribe medication. Their approach to diagnosing typically relies on surveys, interviews, and their own observations. Most offer talk therapy like CBT, as well as action-oriented approaches like Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing (EMDR), which is used to treat PTSD, or Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT), which can be used to treat depression, obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), psychosis, and even medical conditions like substance abuse or chronic pain.  
Finally, clinical social workers have a master's degree in social work, with additional training to be able to evaluate and treat mental health issues. While their mental health credentials may be more limited than other specialists, their holistic approach includes case management and advocacy services that may be of benefit for some individuals.  
Resources like Psychology Today are a great starting point to find an affirming and competent counselor: [www.psychologytoday.com/us](www.psychologytoday.com/us). There you can search providers in your area, narrow by their credentials, accepted insurance, therapeutic techniques, and specialization. A word of caution, though. There is a big different between a provider listing gender identity and transgender issues as something they feel competent to work with (listed under "issues"), versus listing it as a focus of their practice (listed under "specialties"). One red flag to look for is anyone who associates gender identity with sex and sexuality in their narrative. Psychology Today does not check the accuracy of the information that mental health professionals put in their database and they can not guarantee any level of care from any of the providers on their rosters.  
Another place to check is the WPATH provider directory: [www.wpath.org/provider/search](www.wpath.org/provider/search). They maintain a list of providers for all trans health related fields, which you can search by location and specialty. While the WPATh list is fairly expansive, and all the professionals on it have had some level of training in WPATH standards of care, like Psychology Today it is not a vetted list.  
During your first appointment or phone call, they will ask questions and get information about your background in order to diagnose and start treatment. In your first meeting or phone call, it's a chance to ask questions as well to see if they're a good fit for you. [sic] Some of the questions to ask include:

1. Are you LGBTQ affirming?  
2. Have you ever worked with transgender clients before?  
3. Are you affiliated with WPATH and versed in its standards of care?  
4. Are you experienced using the DSM-5 to diagnose mental health conditions?  
5. What therapies do you offer?  
6. How long and often will my sessions be?  
7. What is your hourly rate, and do you accept insurance?  

It may take some trial and error to find someone who is the right fit for you. Searching for a therapist who is LGBT-affirming can help to avoid outright discrimination by providers, but carries the risk of finding someone who is too fixated on discussion your gender identity to the exclusion of underlying trauma or disease.  
It's important to remember that a therapist-patient relationship is about diagnosing and treating a medical phenomenal first and foremost - while it's important to find someone who you feel comfortable with on an interpersonal level, finding a therapist is much like finding any other healthcare provider - their qualifications and effectiveness matter just as much, if not more, than your rapport.  
The objective with any type of therapy is seeking to manage or fully mitigate symptoms. If you are unsure of the prognosis, it's worth seeking a second opinion and/or the next order of expertise (e.g. if you are seeing a clinical social worker, you'd want to seek out a psychologist next).  
Treating mental health can be intimidating. Specialized treatment for underlying conditions won't fundamentally change who you are or what makes you, you. Taking that first step can be nerve-racking, but you are strong enough to do this.  
I know you are scared, but let's find some help together.  
You deserve to heal.