# Wearing & Finding Dresses
Let's get dressed up!  
Dresses are often associated as a hyper-feminine garment. Some women wear dresses, and some do not. Ultimately, this is up to you and based on our [sic] personal style. But if you are so inclined, here are some pointers to get you started.  
Dressed come in many, many different styles. Some companies will even allow you to customize the dress (length, sleeves, pockets, etc.). A dress' formality can range from casual everyday wear to special occasions.  
A dress will generally come in three lengths. Mini, midi, and maxi. A mini-dress covers above the knee but below mid-thigh. A midi-dress falls below the nee but is above the ankle, and max-dress an ankle or floor length. Which dress length is right for you will vary based on your style and the occasion, but you generally cannot go wrong with a midi-length dress (as well as that's the length of most dresses).  
Dresses come in single sizes (8, 10, 12, S, M, L, etc.), and they are rarely similar between manufacturers. If you own multiple dresses you will probably have several different sizes.  
If you usually carry your belongings in your pockets (phone, credit cards, car keys) you may want to consider investing in a purse, cardigan with pockets, or specifically seek out dresses with pockets. Manufacturers generally do not add pockets as a default, so you may have to be more selective to find the right dress.  
For women concerned about the lower half of their bodies, a dress with the fit and flare style can be incredibly helpful. The skirt of the dress flares out (indicative of the name) creating a fit that isn't as tight as is generally more accommodating. Conversely, bodycon dresses can be more challenging to manage and may require some additional creativity (but are certainly not impossible to wear).  
Cardigans and scarfs can be used to layer an outfit with a dress and can help draw down one's shoulders if that is a concern. Leggings, tights, or nylons can be worn under a dress for warmth or fashion.  
When sitting down, while wearing a dress or skirt, it can be helpful to smooth the skirt (running your hands from your lower back down to the back of your knees) while sitting down to keep everything in place and looking nice.  
Dresses can be great for special occasions. Whether it's a gala or a wedding, it may be advisable to find a store where you can try on different options and potentially have alternations made. If you are nervous about going into a store you can try calling in advance, going during slow hours, or ordering online and trying dresses on in the comfort of your own home.  
Wearing a dress may not be something you enjoy, and that isn't a compromise on your femininity or gender. It does come down to personal preference.  
You have a lot of flexibility in how to style your outfit around your dress. Jewelry, shoes, belts, and more can be used to tie the outfit together. If you're looking for a more incognito look, opting for flats (verses sneakers) would be advisable. And like anything else, the more color and flare you add to the outfit may result in increased attention.  
Finding the right colors, fits, style, cuts, length, etc. of dress will take time and experimentation. Maybe your look will change with the season or perhaps it'll evolve with time.  
The biggest piece of advice I can give is not to get discouraged. Some dresses won't look how you wanted, and that is a problem that all women face. That is to say if you've ever looked at yourself and been less than satisfied with how the dress looks, you're just one of the ladies. You'll just want, to keep trying and eventually, you'll find the look that is perfect for you.  
Last but not least, tall girls will have more issues with dresses than their less vertically gifted counterparts. Dresses won't be as long as you want at all times, and it will require additional diligence and creativity to find the right dress. Optimally, with time, you'll find pieces for your wardrobe that make you happy every day. And finding those pieces is the real joy of fashion.  
Go get it, girl!