# Women's Hair Styling
How you style your hair will dramatically differ based on its length and overall style, but here are a few basic concepts to get you started.  
How you style your hair will dramatically differ based on its length, texture, and overall style. Growing out and styling your own hair for the first time is one of the most exciting and personal aspects of social transition - for many individuals, this may be the first part of their body which feels to be in conformity with their sense of self.  
Chances are, you already have an idea of how you want your hair to look, whether that's based on someone you've seen online, in a magazine, or in your own line. How you present, and how strongly it adheres to stereotypes around femininity, is entirely up to your personal taste. With that said, here are a few basics to help you get started.  
Straight/Wavy Hair:  
Starting with having your hair cut and styled, how often you should see the stylist depends on the length, style, and texture of your hair. Shorter styles generally require more frequent maintenance (some experts recommend every few weeks) because growth is more noticeable. For mid-length to long hair, if there isn't breakage or damage and you're able to style it the way that you want, you'll probably only need to go to the salon a few times per year.  
A professional stylist is going to be your best bet in terms of getting help with the initial styling and getting proper instructions. You may want to ask them how often the style will require trimming or maintenance, what products or tools you need to use to maintain it between sessions, and have them show you how they're styling it. Finding a transgender friendly hair stylist may require some calls in advance. The specific tools you'll need to maintain your hairstyle depend largely on your hair texture and how your hair is styled. This can commonly include a straightener and/or curler, hairdryer, brush and/or comb, bobby pins, and/or hair ties. Similarly, there's a wide variety of products available to maintain the style and health of your hair, including hairspray, mousse, styling cream, and thickening or texturizing spray. Each will give a different look and will be appropriate for different styles and textures of hair. Your stylist is the best resource to tell you which products will give you the desired look, or you can always experiment with different products at home to see which you like. YouTube is a great resource for finding tutorials on different ways to style your hair if you want to experiment with different looks.  
Textured Hair:  
Textured hair (coiled, kinky, curly hair) comes with its own set of care requirements that are different from straight or wavy hair. How often you should see the stylist largely depends on the length, style, and health of your hair, as well as how quickly it grows out and how well it can hold its style between cuts. Generally speaking, getting your hair cut every 2-4 months (8-16 weeks) is recommended to maintain the health of your hair.  
One of the big differences between textured and straight hair is how often it needs to be washed and treated. It's generally recommended to only wash your hair once every 7-10 days in order to prevent it from drying out, although if your hair naturally gets more oily, you may find that washing it twice per week works better for you. Regardless of how often you wash, make sure to use conditioner, and you may also find that pre-shampoo or leave-in oil treatments help to strengthen your hair and reduce breakage. If your hair becomes tangled, you can rinse it or use a leave-in conditioner and then use your fingers to detangle it.  
If your hair is braided, you will generally only need to wash it once every 2-3 weeks, going up the braid from your scalp to the ends of your hair in a vertical angle. You should only need to condition the ends, although it's generally recommended to use an oil treatment after washing. You can also use an astringent to break down dirt and buildup from your scalp without washing in order to preserve the longevity of your style. Brains should generally come out after no more than  8 weeks to relieve stress on your scalp.  
A professional stylist is going to be your best bet in terms of getting help with the initial styling and getting proper instructions. You may want to ask them how often the style will require trimming or maintenance, what products or tools you need to maintain it between sessions, and have them show you how they're styling it. Finding a transgender friendly hair stylist may require some calls in advance. Your stylist should specialize in cutting and styling textured hair, which may also limit the available options for who you can see. Depending on your comfort level, you can always experiment with different products and styles at home to see which you like. YouTube is a great resource for finding tutorials on different ways to style your hair if you want to experiment with different looks.  
Wigs  
If styling your natural hair isn't feasible, you can always opt for a wig. Wigs will range in terms of quality and price. Human hair wigs tend to be the most natural looking for obvious reasons, but can also be the most expensive. If you're going to be wearing your hair up off your face, lace front wigs (so named for the piece of fabric that the hairline attaches to) generally create the most natural-appearing hairline. Depending on your price range, wigs with bangs are also a good option because they can hide any lifting or shifting at the wigline. There are a number of inexpensive options that can be purchased online that can be used for testing and experimentation purposes. If you are seeking to wear a wig on a consistent basis, it would be worth investing in professional products and tapping into the expertise of a professional wig stylist if possible.  
[Bliss butterfly icon.] A haircut can cost around $100, which can be a monthly or quarterly expense. To achieve this goal, you may want to start saving up to ensure you can afford this goal when you're ready to accomplish it!  
[Click here to find out more about how to save for this goal.](https://bliss.lgbt/earlyaccess)